English - Polish Piotrowski+Saloni/FreeDict dictionary

co-author of the original TeX/print version: Tadeusz Piotrowski
co-author of the original TeX/print version: Zygmunt Saloni
converted from TeX to SGML by: Katarzyna Głowińska
converted from TeX to SGML by: Marcin Woliński
converted from SGML to TEI XML by: Piotr Bański
Maintainer: Piotr Bański

Edition: 0.2
Piotr Bański: The first TEI P5 version: converted from an
               XML-ised SGML version (see changelogs for details).

Size: 16362 headwords

Publisher: FreeDict.


Availability:

    The FreeDict application is available under the terms of the GNU General
  Public License, version 3.0 or any later version. In addition, the
  textual content of the dictionary is licensed under GNU Free
  Documentation License ver. 1.2 or any later version.

Publication date: 6 May 2009.
Published at: http://freedict.org/
ID# (SVN): $Id$

Notes:

 * Database Status: big enough to be useful


Source(s):

  The FreeDict dictionary was converted from an SGML version of "Nowy
  Słownik angielsko-polski" (New English-Polish Dictionary) by Tadeusz
  Piotrowski and Zygmunt Saloni (1992). Warszawa: Editions Spotkania.
  ISBN-83-85195-81-5. The dictionary was created in TeX and converted to
  SGML by Katarzyna Głowińska and Marcin Woliński of the University of
  Warsaw. Idarex codes were added to it (possibly by Tadeusz Piotrowski
  and/or his students). The GNU release was facilitated by Janusz S. Bień
  of the University of Warsaw. The authors' licensing statement is
  included as PDF in the etc/ directory (the TEI version mentioned there
  is a different version produced by students of the University of Warsaw;
  that version was not used in the creation of the FreeDict dictionary).
  See the revisionDesc and the ChangeLog file for more details. The TeX,
  SGML and XML-ised SGML versions (the latter accompanied by an XSLT
  conversion script by Piotr Bański, included for verifiability and
  reproducibility of the results) are released together with release 0.1
  of this dictionary.[note: the script appears to have been misplaced or
  overwritten, it will be added when/if found).

The Project:

  This dictionary comes to you through nice people making it available for
  free and for good. It is part of the FreeDict project. This project aims
  to make many translating dictionaries available for free. Your
  contributions are welcome!

Changelog:

 * 2010-05-11 Piotr Bański ver. 0.2:
   * added more information to the header,
   * anchored some of the POS values in the FreeDict interface to
     GOLD/ISO DCR (this is the reason for the version number change),
   * prepared the representation for the so far non-existent <subc>
     (subcategorization) fields; for the time being "V Phras", etc. are
     used as an atomic POS that are aligned with the corresponding simple
     POS.
 * 2010-05-06 Piotr Bański ver. 0.1:
   * converted SGML files to UTF-8;
   * converted the transcription codes to IPA;
   * created an XML DTD to validate the dictionary as XML, split all
     letters into separate files (e.g. "xyz" used to be a single file);
   * very slightly corrected/modified the post-SGML version (it is
     released as one of the packages in version 0.1);
   * converted codes into letters with diacritics in UTF-8;
   * added non-diacritic versions to headwords with diacritics, to
     facilitate searches (e.g. pate to pâté; around 40 additions);
   * the only lexicographic intrusion was splitting protégé/protégée
     to make them analogical to fiancé/fiancée, to make it easier to
     process them (note the difference in the POS: protégé/protégée is
     categorised as Adj, fiancé is N);
   * wrote a conversion script to TEI XML (included with the
     post-SGML version as partial documentation);
   * created this header, xincluding the individual letter files, so
     that the dictionary is easier to maintain;
   * there are still a lot of fixes to do -- e.g. add entries missing
     in the SGML version (e.g. can! etc.) from the TeX version (a list by
     Radek Moszczyński is provided), fix POS (typo in inter(j), V Refl),
     unify the idarexen, join equivalents that were split around the '/'
     (km/h initially ended up as separate strings), split some ambiguous
     notes (e.g. 'gloss', see the conversion script for comments) into
     separate subclasses, split some comma-separated variant
     transcriptions into separate elements; separate regional variants
     Br/US from e.g. Latin expansions of some abbreviations (cf. cf.),
     which should not be located by headword queries (in this case, a
     query for confer);
   * some entries that were proper subparts of other entries (mostly
     US spellings) were eliminated from the TEI version (but preserved in
     the post-SGML XML version) - the full list can be found in the XSLT
     conversion script;
   * a separate item is extending the dictionary with an XML
     representation of idarexen (described in a paper by Bański and
     Moszczyński, LREC-08);
   * the companion volume (pol-eng) awaits conversion from the TeX
     source;
